# CompactionAnalyzer 

## Quantification of tissue compaction around cells

Python package to quantify the tissue compaction (as a measure of the contractile strength) generated by cells or multicellular spheroids that are embedded in fiber materials. For this we provide the two following approaches:

**A**: Evaluating the directionality of fibers towards the cell center <br>
**B**: Evaluating the increased intensity around the cell.  <br>


## Installation
The package can be installed by cloning this repository or downloading the repository as a zip file [here](https://github.com/davidbhr/CompactionAnalyzer/zipball/master). For installation, run the following command within the unzipped folder, in which the *setup.py* file is located: `pip install -e .`. This automatically downloads and installs all other required packages.

## Tutorial

The script 'CompactionAnalysis.py' within the turorial folder might be good start to get familiar with the analyis. 

First we import all of the necessary functions by using

```python
from CompactionAnalyzer.CompactionFunctions import *
```

For the analysis we then need per each cell an image of the fiber structure (e.g. 2nd harmonic, confocal reflection or stained fluorescence images; maximum intensity projection around the cells might be useful) and an image of the cell for segmentation (staining or brightfield). 

We define the input data for the fibers using `fiber_list_string` ant the cells using `cell_list_string` (here we can utilize the * place holder to selecet multiple images).  `generate_lists()` then searches all specified fiber and cell paths and creates output subfolder in the specified `output_folder` directory automatically.

```python
output_folder = "Analysis_output" 
fiber_list_string =  r"imagedata\*ch00*.tif"
cell_list_string =  r"imagedata\*ch01*.tif" 

fiber_list,cell_list, out_list = generate_lists(fiber_list_string, cell_list_string, output_main =output_folder)
```

We then want to start the analysis and compute the orientation of individual fibers using structure tensor analysis. Here *sigma_tensor* is the kernel size that determines the length scale on which the strucutre is analysed. The kernel size should be in the range of structure we want to look at and can be optimized for the individual application. For our fiber gels we use a value of 7 µm, which is in range of the pore size. 


We can redefine all of the following paramters before starting the analysis. The corresponding pixel scale is set as `scale` and the segmentiation can be changed by using the `segmention_thres` or by changing the local contrast enhancement via `seg_gaus1, seg_gaus2`. With `show_segmentation = True` we can inspect the segmentation or - if preferred - segment the mask manually by clicking using `manual_segmention  = True`.

```python
scale =  0.318                  # imagescale as um per pixel
sigma_tensor = 7/scale          # sigma of applied gauss filter / window for structure tensor analysis in px
                                # should be in the order of the objects to analyze !! 
                                # 7 um for collagen 
edge = 40                       # Cutt of pixels at the edge since values at the border cannot be trusted
segmention_thres = 1.0          # for cell segemetntion, thres 1 equals normal otsu threshold , change to detect different percentage of bright pixel
seg_gaus1, seg_gaus2 = 8,80     # 2 gaus filters used for local contrast enhancement for segementation
show_segmentation = False        # display the segmentation output to test parameters - script wont run further
sigma_first_blur  = 0.5         # slight first bluring of whole image before using structure tensor
angle_sections = 5              # size of angle sections in degree 
shell_width =  5/scale          # pixel width of distance shells (px-value=um-value/scale)
manual_segmention = False       # manual segmentation of mask by click cell outline
plotting = True                 # creates and saves plots additionally to excel files 
dpi = 200                       # resolution of plots to be stored
SaveNumpy = True                # saves numpy arrays for later analysis - might create lots of data
norm1,norm2 = 1,99              # contrast spreading for input images  by setting all values below norm1-percentile to zero and
                                # all values above norm2-percentile to 1
seg_invert=False                # if segmentation is inverted (True) dark objects are detected inseated of bright ones
seg_iter = 1                    # repetition of closing and dilation steps for segmentation      
segmention_method="otsu"               #  use "otsu" or "yen"  as segmentation method
load_segmentation = False        # if true enter the path of the segementation math in path_seg to
path_seg = None                  # load in a saved.segmetnion.npy 
```


Now we can start to analyse all our cells individually using the single function `StuctureAnalysisMain` (follow the scripts in the tutorial folder):

```python
# Start the structure analysis with the above specified parameters
StuctureAnalysisMain(fiber_list=fiber_list,
                     cell_list=cell_list, 
                     out_list=out_list,
                     scale=scale, 
                     sigma_tensor = sigma_tensor , 
                     ...)
```


For each cell we now receive 3 excel files: 

* `results_total.xlsx`    - Evaluating the overall orientation within the field of view 
* `results_distance.xlsx` - Evaluating the orientation & Intensity in distance shells towards the cell surface
* `results_angle.xlsx`    - Evaluating  the orientation & Intensity in angle sections around the cell center

To compare different cells we can utilize e.g the total orientation within a field of view (vorraussetzung that all cell have the same FoV) or could also compare the Intensity values in the first distance shell(s). 









If we now want to evaluate e.g. a measurement containing multiple cells, we can read in all excel files (individual cells) in the underlying folders of the given `data` path and combine them in a new excel file by using

```python
SummarizeResultsTotal(data="Analysis_output", output_folder= "Analysis_output\Combine_Set1")
SummarizeResultsDistance(data="Analysis_output", output_folder= "Analysis_output\Combine_Set1")
```

Now compromised excel sheet returns total analysis and also ditance analysis






## Maxprojections

Might be usefull to use Maximum intensity image around cell (smalls stacks) to include maximal compation.  
 For different max projection height it might be necessary to change parameter X , since fiberstructure seems / erscheint more densly. Maximumprojection can also be created using the function   XY


IMAGE coolwarm erosion



## Multicellular Compaction Assay

Beneath individual cells also the compaction can bes assesed on a multicellular level using for example cell sphetoids. This can offer the advantage that uniform round shape  and less moement a lower sample number ight be suffiecient. 

Additionally, absolute forces of spheroids can be measured using the python package **Jointforces** LINK HERE, which requires additonal material measurements & timelapse imaging.

## Resolving compound effects

resolve contractility of tumor spheroids and drug responses.

## How to cite

If you are using the CompactionAnalyzer feel free to cite:

TODO: Write a paper and put it here...
